Paper Title: Alternatives for sustainable weed control in single? and double?cropped soybean: A case study for Mediterranean irrigated conditions
Paper Abstract: The irrigated cropping systems in South Europe could benefit from soybean [ Glycine max (L.) Merr.] introduction in their maize ( Zea mays L.)?based crop rotations. However, sustainable weed management strategies are needed for soybean growers under Mediterranean irrigated conditions. This work aimed to assess the weed control efficacy, and the soybean performance, of alternative management practices for single? and double?cropped soybean. Two field experiments were carried out in northeast Spain in the period 2019Ð2021. Row width narrowing (75Ð37.5 cm), herbicide application (yes/no), and roller?crimped rye [ Secale cereal (L.) M.Bieb.] cover crop (yes/no) were assessed in the single cropping system experiment (SCS). In the barley?soybean double cropping system experiment (DCS), row width narrowing and herbicide application were assessed. In the SCS, the presence of rye cover crop reduced weed biomass up to 92% compared to the controls without herbicide and cover crop in 2020. In 2021, no effect of the cover crop on weed pressure was found due to the low amount of rye biomass accumulated (11.8 and 3.4 ton DM ha ?1 in 2020 and 2021, respectively). In the DCS, herbicide application attained the expected weed control. Row width narrowing to 37.5 cm did not have an impact on weed pressure nor on soybean yield in either experiment. We concluded that herbicide reduction for single?cropped soybean under Mediterranean irrigated conditions can be achieved by roller?crimping a rye cover crop, provided enough rye biomass is accumulated. In the DCS, our results indicated that further research is needed to find alternatives to chemical weed control.

OA_Topic: Intercropping in Agricultural Systems
OG_Topic: Weed Management in Agriculture 

Evaluation output: 
match_with_OA: no

which_is_better: both

comment_OA: complementary

comment_OG: complementary

Justification:

The OA topic "Intercropping in Agricultural Systems" is complementary because the study does involve examining different cropping systems (single- and double-cropped soybean) and their weed management strategies, which relates to intercropping and its impact on agricultural systems.

The OG topic "Weed Management in Agriculture" is also complementary as it directly addresses the main focus of the paper, which is assessing sustainable weed control strategies in soybean crops under Mediterranean irrigated conditions. Both topics capture important aspects of the study and are equally applicable.