Paper Title: Effects of Water Management Practices on Methane Emissions and Rice Yields in East Asian Paddy Fields: A Regional-Scale Meta-Analysis
Paper Abstract: Paddy fields are considered one of the most important sources of anthropogenic methane (CH4) emissions. Drainage of the flooded soils can reduce CH4 substantially, but rice yields can be variable depending on soil drainage. Therefore, to reduce this variability, water management effects on CH4 emissions and rice yields were comprehensively analyzed in paddy fields of countries similar to Korea. Here, we selected 161 observations of water management and 174 observations of rice yields from 28 articles and conducted a regional-scale meta-analysis of the effects of water management practices on CH4 emissions and rice yields in paddy fields. As a result of the analysis, we found that water management practices in East Asian paddy fields reduced methane by 60.5%. Water management practices in paddy fields decreased rice yield by 5.8% but there was no significant. The water management practices of the paddy fields with a high CH4 emission reduction effect and no impact on rice yields were alternating wet and dry (AWD), flooding-drainage-reflooding (FDF), and moist irrigation (MI) practices. Therefore, it is considered that the above three practices can be applied in Korea. The results of this study are expected to predict CH4 emissions and rice yields generated by water management practices in East Asian rice paddies in the future and be used as basic data for the development of national unique coefficients.A response ratio of CH4 emissions (A) and rice yields (B) by water management types.

OA_Topic: Meta-analysis in Ecology and Agriculture Research
OG_Topic: "AWD and Rice GHG Emissions 

Evaluation output: 
match_with_OA: no

which_is_better: OG

comment_OA: complementary

comment_OG: precise

Justification:

The OA topic "Meta-analysis in Ecology and Agriculture Research" is complementary because the study uses meta-analysis as a method to assess the impact of water management practices on methane emissions and rice yields. However, the primary focus is on the outcomes of specific water management practices rather than on the meta-analysis methodology itself.

The OG topic "AWD and Rice GHG Emissions" is precise because it directly addresses the main focus of the paper, which is the impact of alternating wet and dry (AWD) and other water management practices on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and rice yields in East Asian paddy fields. Therefore, the OG topic more accurately reflects the main content and emphasis of the paper.