Paper Title: HARVESTING IRRIGATED ALFALFA IN THE ESTABLISHMENT YEAR IN SOUTHWESTERN SASKATCHEWAN
Paper Abstract: Four alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cultivars, Beaver, Roamer, Dupuits and Alfa, were seeded on an alluvial clay loam soil in a randomized complete block design experiment in each of the 4 yr from 1976 to 1979 and again in 1981 at Swift Current, Saskatchewan. The plots were irrigated at a level to meet the evapotranspiration demand for maximum forage yield. The effect on future yields of harvesting once in the establishment year (approx. 15) was established by determining forage yields for 4, 4, 3, 2 and 2 yr subsequent to the establishment year, respectively. Establishment year harvesting reduced the subsequent yield of Beaver and Alfa cultivars in the 1976 and 1977 seedings. There were no significant effects in 1978, 1979 and 1981 seedings from establishment year harvesting. It was noted when significant yield reductions did occur in the post-establishment yields that the establishment year yield compensates and the total production of the stand is not affected. Roamer was superior to Beaver which was better than Alfa and Dupuits in winterhardiness at this location. Variation in the significance of establishment year treatments among seeding years indicated that establishment year management trials should be sequently seeded for at least 3 yr to evaluate management ? environment interaction effects on perennial crops.Key words: Alfalfa, medicago, cutting, yield, winterkill

OA_Topic: Diversity and Conservation of Vascular Plants in Central Europe
OG_Topic: Forage Quality and Dairy Grazing 

Evaluation output: 
match_with_OA: no

which_is_better: OG

comment_OA: wrong

comment_OG: precise

Justification:

The OA topic "Diversity and Conservation of Vascular Plants in Central Europe" is wrong because the paper focuses on harvesting irrigated alfalfa and its effects on future yields, rather than on the diversity and conservation of vascular plants in Central Europe.

The OG topic "Forage Quality and Dairy Grazing" is precise because it directly addresses the main focus of the paper, which is the management and yield of alfalfa as a forage crop, important for dairy grazing systems. Therefore, the OG topic more accurately reflects the content and objectives of the paper.