Paper Title: Bacterial community composition of bulk soil from date palm (Phoenix dactylifera) farm depend on irrigation water salinity
Paper Abstract: Non-saline and saline ground water irrigation is extensively used in the arid regions of United Arab Emirates (UAE) for date palm (Phoenix dactylifera) cultivation without knowing its effect on bulk soil bacterial communities. Bulk soil acts as a supply base for microbes and nutrients that are accessed by date palm roots. We collected soil samples from date farms across UAE and performed V3-V4 16s rRNA metabarcoding analysis to understand how bulk soil bacterial diversity and communities respond to irrigation water sources (non-saline and saline groundwater irrigation). There was no significant variation in bulk bacterial diversity (Shannon diversity, richness as well as evenness). But bulk bacterial communities differed between irrigation water sources and irrigation water electrical conductivity was the significant factor that explained a part of community variation. Out of total 5089 OTUs, saline bulk soil harbored only 21.3% of total OTUs compared to 31.5% OTUs in non-saline bulk soil, while 47.15% OTUs shared between both types of irrigation. Proteobacteria abundance was higher in saline bulk soil, while Actinobacteriota abundance was enhanced in non-saline bulk soil. Similar selection was observed at genus level, wherein saline bulk soil showed increase in abundance of Subgroup_10, Nitrospira and Mycobacterium, whereas Microvirga, Ammoniphilus, Nitrospira and Lysinibacillus were elevated in non-saline bulk soil. Saline (Novibacillus and Bauldea) and non-saline bulk soil (Microvirga, Marmoricola, Domibacillus, Oceanobacillus, Bhargavaea and Solirubrobacter) showed significant selection of indicator taxa (P 0.05). This indicate that bacterial communities colonizing bulk soil differ depending on irrigation water source and it is affected by irrigation water EC.

OA_Topic: Date Palm (Phoenix dactylifera) Research
OG_Topic: Soil Microbial Communities 

Evaluation output: 
match_with_OA: no

which_is_better: both

comment_OA: complementary

comment_OG: complementary

Justification:

The OA topic "Date Palm (Phoenix dactylifera) Research" is complementary because the study is conducted on date palm farms and aims to understand the impact of irrigation water salinity on the bulk soil bacterial community in these farms.

The OG topic "Soil Microbial Communities" is also complementary as it directly addresses the core focus of the paper, which investigates the composition and diversity of soil bacterial communities in relation to different irrigation water salinities. Both topics highlight relevant aspects of the study, making them equally applicable.